README.md, before:

# Notes Wiki

A self-contained, offline-first personal knowledge management system built with vanilla JavaScript. Features 74 themes, advanced search, and multi-tab interface with zero external dependencies.

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-4.1.0-blue)
![Size](https://img.shields.io/badge/size-~15MB-green)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-orange)

## Features

- **Offline-First**: Works completely offline with no external dependencies
- **Multi-Tab Interface**: Browser-style tabs with drag-and-drop, pinning, and split view
- **74 Themes**: Professional themes organized in 10 categories  
- **Advanced Search**: Full-text search with operators (`tag:`, `author:`, `"exact phrase"`, `-exclude`)
- **Markdown Support**: Full CommonMark spec with syntax highlighting and Mermaid diagrams
- **Self-Contained**: All assets bundled - fonts, libraries, themes

## Quick Start

### Deploy to GitHub Pages

1. Fork this repository
2. Enable GitHub Pages: Settings → Pages → Source: GitHub Actions
3. Your wiki will be available at: `https://[username].github.io/Wiki/`

### Run Locally

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Real-Fruit-Snacks/Wiki.git
cd Wiki
python3 -m http.server 8000
# Open http://localhost:8000
```

### Deploy to Other Platforms

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/Real-Fruit-Snacks/Wiki/releases) which includes configurations for GitLab Pages and other platforms.

## Usage

### Adding Notes

1. Create markdown files in the `/notes/` directory:

```markdown
---
title: My Note
tags: [topic, category]
author: Your Name
created: 2025-06-24
---

# My Note

Your content here...
```

2. Rebuild the search index:

```bash
npm run build
# or
python3 build.py
```

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- `?` - Show all shortcuts
- `Ctrl+K` - Quick search
- `Ctrl+T` - New tab
- `F` - Focus mode
- `Ctrl+Shift+S` - Quick notes panel

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.x (for building search index)
- Node.js (optional, for npm scripts)

### Commands

```bash
# Build search index
npm run build

# Validate JavaScript
npm run validate  

# Validate themes
npm run validate-themes

# Run all validations
npm run validate-all

# Create release package
npm run package

# Serve locally
npm run serve
```

### Project Structure

```
├── index.html          # Single-page application entry
├── script.js           # Core application (15,700+ lines)
├── style.css           # Base styles and theme system
├── build.py            # Search index generator
├── notes/              # Markdown content
├── themes/             # 74 CSS theme files
├── libs/               # Bundled dependencies
├── fonts/              # Self-hosted web fonts
├── _config.yml         # Jekyll configuration for GitHub Pages
├── .nojekyll           # Disable Jekyll processing
└── 404.html            # Custom 404 page
```

## Documentation

- [CLAUDE.md](CLAUDE.md) - Development guide and architecture details

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

Built with vanilla JavaScript and no frameworks. Includes bundled versions of:
- [Marked.js](https://marked.js.org/) - Markdown parsing
- [Prism.js](https://prismjs.com/) - Syntax highlighting  
- [js-yaml](https://github.com/nodeca/js-yaml) - YAML frontmatter parsing

Commit message:

Update README to enhance documentation clarity and organization
- Added a comprehensive overview of available documentation in the `/notes/` directory, including sections for getting started, features, and advanced topics.
- Improved user guidance by clearly outlining the structure of the documentation, making it easier for contributors and users to find relevant information.

These changes aim to improve the accessibility and usability of the project's documentation.

README.md, after:

# Notes Wiki

A self-contained, offline-first personal knowledge management system built with vanilla JavaScript. Features 74 themes, advanced search, and multi-tab interface with zero external dependencies.

![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-4.1.0-blue)
![Size](https://img.shields.io/badge/size-~15MB-green)
![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-orange)

## Features

- **Offline-First**: Works completely offline with no external dependencies
- **Multi-Tab Interface**: Browser-style tabs with drag-and-drop, pinning, and split view
- **74 Themes**: Professional themes organized in 10 categories  
- **Advanced Search**: Full-text search with operators (`tag:`, `author:`, `"exact phrase"`, `-exclude`)
- **Markdown Support**: Full CommonMark spec with syntax highlighting and Mermaid diagrams
- **Self-Contained**: All assets bundled - fonts, libraries, themes

## Quick Start

### Deploy to GitHub Pages

1. Fork this repository
2. Enable GitHub Pages: Settings → Pages → Source: GitHub Actions
3. Your wiki will be available at: `https://[username].github.io/Wiki/`

### Run Locally

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Real-Fruit-Snacks/Wiki.git
cd Wiki
python3 -m http.server 8000
# Open http://localhost:8000
```

### Deploy to Other Platforms

Download the [latest release](https://github.com/Real-Fruit-Snacks/Wiki/releases) which includes configurations for GitLab Pages and other platforms.

## Usage

### Adding Notes

1. Create markdown files in the `/notes/` directory:

```markdown
---
title: My Note
tags: [topic, category]
author: Your Name
created: 2025-06-24
---

# My Note

Your content here...
```

2. Rebuild the search index:

```bash
npm run build
# or
python3 build.py
```

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- `?` - Show all shortcuts
- `Ctrl+K` - Quick search
- `Ctrl+T` - New tab
- `F` - Focus mode
- `Ctrl+Shift+S` - Quick notes panel

## Development

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.x (for building search index)
- Node.js (optional, for npm scripts)

### Commands

```bash
# Build search index
npm run build

# Validate JavaScript
npm run validate  

# Validate themes
npm run validate-themes

# Run all validations
npm run validate-all

# Create release package
npm run package

# Serve locally
npm run serve
```

### Project Structure

```
├── index.html          # Single-page application entry
├── script.js           # Core application (15,700+ lines)
├── style.css           # Base styles and theme system
├── build.py            # Search index generator
├── notes/              # Markdown content
├── themes/             # 74 CSS theme files
├── libs/               # Bundled dependencies
├── fonts/              # Self-hosted web fonts
├── _config.yml         # Jekyll configuration for GitHub Pages
├── .nojekyll           # Disable Jekyll processing
└── 404.html            # Custom 404 page
```

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the `/notes/` directory, including:
- Getting started guides in `/notes/tutorials/getting-started/`
- Feature guides in `/notes/tutorials/features/`
- Advanced topics in `/notes/tutorials/advanced/`

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

Built with vanilla JavaScript and no frameworks. Includes bundled versions of:
- [Marked.js](https://marked.js.org/) - Markdown parsing
- [Prism.js](https://prismjs.com/) - Syntax highlighting  
- [js-yaml](https://github.com/nodeca/js-yaml) - YAML frontmatter parsing
