notes/tutorials/getting-started/welcome.md, before:

---
title: Welcome to Notes Wiki
tags: [tutorial, getting-started]
author: Wiki Team
created: 2025-01-18
description: Your comprehensive guide to getting started with Notes Wiki
---

# Welcome to Notes Wiki

Welcome to your personal knowledge management system! This guide will help you get started with Notes Wiki in just a few minutes.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### First Steps

1. **Navigate Notes**: Click on any note in the sidebar to open it
2. **Search Everything**: Press `Ctrl+K` or `/` to search across all notes
3. **Open Multiple Tabs**: Middle-click or Ctrl+click notes to open in new tabs
4. **Switch Themes**: Press `Ctrl+,` to open settings and choose from 70 themes

### Essential Features at a Glance

- 📑 **Multi-tab browsing** - Work with multiple notes simultaneously
- 🔍 **Powerful search** - Find anything instantly with advanced operators
- 🎨 **70 themes** - Customize your reading experience
- 📱 **Fully responsive** - Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- 🔒 **Privacy-first** - Everything runs locally in your browser

## 📂 Understanding the Interface

### Sidebar Navigation
- **Contexts**: Top-level folders that organize your notes (Personal, Technical, etc.)
- **File Tree**: Expandable folders showing your note structure
- **Recent Files**: Quick access to recently viewed notes
- **Filter by Tags**: Click tags to filter the file tree

### Main Content Area
- **Tabs**: Each open note appears as a tab (drag to reorder)
- **Note Content**: The main reading area with full markdown support
- **Table of Contents**: Auto-generated outline for easy navigation
- **Reading Progress**: Track your position in longer notes

### Header Actions
- **Search** (`Ctrl+K`): Global search across all notes
- **Context Filter**: Switch between note categories
- **Settings** (`Ctrl+,`): Customize your experience

## 🎯 Core Concepts

### Notes Are Markdown Files
All notes are written in Markdown with YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: My Note Title
tags: [tag1, tag2]
author: Your Name
created: 2025-01-18
---

# Note content starts here
```

### Everything Is Searchable
The search indexes:
- Note titles and content
- Code blocks
- Tags and metadata
- File paths

### Offline-First Design
Once loaded, Notes Wiki works completely offline. Your notes are stored as simple markdown files that you can edit with any text editor.

## 🚀 Next Steps

Explore these tutorials to master Notes Wiki:

1. **[[../features/search-guide|Master the Search]]** - Learn advanced search techniques
2. **[[../features/tab-management|Tab Management]]** - Work efficiently with multiple notes
3. **[[../features/keyboard-shortcuts|Keyboard Shortcuts]]** - Speed up your workflow
4. **[[../features/themes|Themes Gallery]]** - Customize your appearance

## 💡 Pro Tips

- Press `?` anytime to see all keyboard shortcuts
- Press `F` to enter focus mode for distraction-free reading
- Use `Ctrl+F` to search within the current note
- Drag and drop tabs to reorder them
- Right-click tabs for more options

## 🆘 Getting Help

- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Press `?` to see all available shortcuts
- **This Tutorial**: Return here anytime by clicking "Welcome" in the tutorials
- **Report Issues**: Found a bug? Report it on our GitHub page

---

Ready to dive in? Start by exploring the features tutorials or just begin taking notes. Welcome to your new knowledge management system! 🎉

Commit message:

refactor: update shortcut descriptions and enhance usability
- Changed the description for the `Ctrl+F` shortcut in `index.html` and `welcome.md` to clarify that it utilizes the browser's native find functionality.
- Removed the deprecated 'filter' shortcut references to streamline the user experience and reduce confusion.
- Updated the `notes-index.json` to reflect changes in authors' order and adjusted the generated timestamp.

These updates improve clarity and usability for users navigating keyboard shortcuts and enhance the overall experience in the application.

notes/tutorials/getting-started/welcome.md, after:

---
title: Welcome to Notes Wiki
tags: [tutorial, getting-started]
author: Wiki Team
created: 2025-01-18
description: Your comprehensive guide to getting started with Notes Wiki
---

# Welcome to Notes Wiki

Welcome to your personal knowledge management system! This guide will help you get started with Notes Wiki in just a few minutes.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### First Steps

1. **Navigate Notes**: Click on any note in the sidebar to open it
2. **Search Everything**: Press `Ctrl+K` or `/` to search across all notes
3. **Open Multiple Tabs**: Middle-click or Ctrl+click notes to open in new tabs
4. **Switch Themes**: Press `Ctrl+,` to open settings and choose from 70 themes

### Essential Features at a Glance

- 📑 **Multi-tab browsing** - Work with multiple notes simultaneously
- 🔍 **Powerful search** - Find anything instantly with advanced operators
- 🎨 **70 themes** - Customize your reading experience
- 📱 **Fully responsive** - Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- 🔒 **Privacy-first** - Everything runs locally in your browser

## 📂 Understanding the Interface

### Sidebar Navigation
- **Contexts**: Top-level folders that organize your notes (Personal, Technical, etc.)
- **File Tree**: Expandable folders showing your note structure
- **Recent Files**: Quick access to recently viewed notes
- **Filter by Tags**: Click tags to filter the file tree

### Main Content Area
- **Tabs**: Each open note appears as a tab (drag to reorder)
- **Note Content**: The main reading area with full markdown support
- **Table of Contents**: Auto-generated outline for easy navigation
- **Reading Progress**: Track your position in longer notes

### Header Actions
- **Search** (`Ctrl+K`): Global search across all notes
- **Context Filter**: Switch between note categories
- **Settings** (`Ctrl+,`): Customize your experience

## 🎯 Core Concepts

### Notes Are Markdown Files
All notes are written in Markdown with YAML frontmatter:

```yaml
---
title: My Note Title
tags: [tag1, tag2]
author: Your Name
created: 2025-01-18
---

# Note content starts here
```

### Everything Is Searchable
The search indexes:
- Note titles and content
- Code blocks
- Tags and metadata
- File paths

### Offline-First Design
Once loaded, Notes Wiki works completely offline. Your notes are stored as simple markdown files that you can edit with any text editor.

## 🚀 Next Steps

Explore these tutorials to master Notes Wiki:

1. **[[../features/search-guide|Master the Search]]** - Learn advanced search techniques
2. **[[../features/tab-management|Tab Management]]** - Work efficiently with multiple notes
3. **[[../features/keyboard-shortcuts|Keyboard Shortcuts]]** - Speed up your workflow
4. **[[../features/themes|Themes Gallery]]** - Customize your appearance

## 💡 Pro Tips

- Press `?` anytime to see all keyboard shortcuts
- Press `F` to enter focus mode for distraction-free reading
- Use `Ctrl+F` to find text on the current page (browser's native find)
- Drag and drop tabs to reorder them
- Right-click tabs for more options

## 🆘 Getting Help

- **Keyboard Shortcuts**: Press `?` to see all available shortcuts
- **This Tutorial**: Return here anytime by clicking "Welcome" in the tutorials
- **Report Issues**: Found a bug? Report it on our GitHub page

---

Ready to dive in? Start by exploring the features tutorials or just begin taking notes. Welcome to your new knowledge management system! 🎉
