notes/tutorials/features/keyboard-shortcuts.md, before:

---
title: Keyboard Shortcuts Guide
tags: [demo, shortcuts, productivity, navigation]
created: 2025-06-13
author: Wiki Admin
description: Complete guide to all available keyboard shortcuts
---

# Keyboard Shortcuts Guide

The Notes Wiki includes keyboard shortcuts to boost your productivity. Press <kbd>?</kbd> at any time to see the shortcuts cheatsheet!

## 🎯 Quick Access

| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>?</kbd> | Show shortcuts cheatsheet | Opens the complete shortcuts overlay |
| <kbd>Esc</kbd> | Close modals | Closes any open modals, overlays, or dialogs |
| <kbd>F</kbd> | Focus mode | Toggle distraction-free reading mode |

## 🔍 Search & Navigation

| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>K</kbd> | Search | Open global search (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>K</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>F</kbd> | Filter by tags | Open tag filtering interface (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>F</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd> | Bookmark note | Bookmark the current note (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd>) |

## 📑 Tab Management

### Browser-Compatible Shortcuts (Recommended)
| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd> | New tab | Open a new empty tab (browser-safe) |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> | Close tab | Close the current tab (browser-safe) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> | Close all tabs | Close all open tabs (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> | Switch to tab | Jump to tab by number (1-9) |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd> | Previous tab | Switch to the previous tab |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>PageDown</kbd> | Next tab | Switch to the next tab |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd> | Pin/unpin tab | Toggle pin status of current tab |

### Legacy Shortcuts (May conflict with browser)
| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd> | New tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> | Close tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> | Switch to tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd> | Previous tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>PageDown</kbd> | Next tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>PageDown</kbd>) |

## ⚙️ Settings & Features

| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd> | Open settings | Access all application settings (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>S</kbd> | Create sticky note | Create a new floating sticky note (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>S</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>/</kbd> | Toggle split view | Enable/disable split view mode (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>/</kbd>) |

## 💡 Tips

### Platform Compatibility
- **Windows/Linux**: Use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> key for shortcuts
- **Mac**: Use <kbd>⌘</kbd> (Command) key instead of <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>

### Customizable Shortcuts
You can customize some keyboard shortcuts in **Settings** → **Advanced** → **Keyboard Shortcuts**. The following shortcuts can be customized:
- New tab
- Search  
- Settings
- Tag filtering
- Bookmark note

### Browser Compatibility
Some shortcuts may conflict with browser defaults. The wiki provides alternative shortcuts (using <kbd>Alt</kbd>) to avoid conflicts.

---

## Remember: <kbd>?</kbd> Shows All Shortcuts

The most important shortcut to remember is <kbd>?</kbd> - it will show you the complete, up-to-date shortcuts cheatsheet whenever you need it!

**Customize available shortcuts in Settings → Advanced → Keyboard Shortcuts to match your workflow.**

Commit message:

feat: enhance search functionality with new filters and shortcuts
- Added new filtering options for code content, status, and category in the search functionality, allowing users to refine their searches more effectively.
- Updated the searchable content in various notes to include examples of the new filtering capabilities, improving user guidance on utilizing advanced search features.
- Revised keyboard shortcuts documentation to clarify the usage of the tag filter and the new code filtering options, ensuring users have accurate information for efficient navigation.

These enhancements significantly improve the search experience, making it easier for users to find relevant notes and content.

notes/tutorials/features/keyboard-shortcuts.md, after:

---
title: Keyboard Shortcuts Guide
tags: [demo, shortcuts, productivity, navigation]
created: 2025-06-13
author: Wiki Admin
description: Complete guide to all available keyboard shortcuts
---

# Keyboard Shortcuts Guide

The Notes Wiki includes keyboard shortcuts to boost your productivity. Press <kbd>?</kbd> at any time to see the shortcuts cheatsheet!

## 🎯 Quick Access

| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>?</kbd> | Show shortcuts cheatsheet | Opens the complete shortcuts overlay |
| <kbd>Esc</kbd> | Close modals | Closes any open modals, overlays, or dialogs |
| <kbd>F</kbd> | Focus mode | Toggle distraction-free reading mode |

## 🔍 Search & Navigation

| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>K</kbd> | Search | Open global search (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>K</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd> | Bookmark note | Bookmark the current note (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd>) |

**Note**: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>F</kbd> opens the browser's native find-in-page function. Tag filtering is accessed via the Tags button (🏷️) in the header.

## 📑 Tab Management

### Browser-Compatible Shortcuts (Recommended)
| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd> | New tab | Open a new empty tab (browser-safe) |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> | Close tab | Close the current tab (browser-safe) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> | Close all tabs | Close all open tabs (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> | Switch to tab | Jump to tab by number (1-9) |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd> | Previous tab | Switch to the previous tab |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>PageDown</kbd> | Next tab | Switch to the next tab |
| <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd> | Pin/unpin tab | Toggle pin status of current tab |

### Legacy Shortcuts (May conflict with browser)
| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd> | New tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> | Close tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> | Switch to tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd> | Previous tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>PageDown</kbd> | Next tab | May conflict with browser (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>PageDown</kbd>) |

## ⚙️ Settings & Features

| Shortcut | Action | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd> | Open settings | Access all application settings (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>,</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>S</kbd> | Create sticky note | Create a new floating sticky note (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>S</kbd>) |
| <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>/</kbd> | Toggle split view | Enable/disable split view mode (Mac: <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>/</kbd>) |

## 💡 Tips

### Platform Compatibility
- **Windows/Linux**: Use <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> key for shortcuts
- **Mac**: Use <kbd>⌘</kbd> (Command) key instead of <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>

### Customizable Shortcuts
You can customize some keyboard shortcuts in **Settings** → **Advanced** → **Keyboard Shortcuts**. The following shortcuts can be customized:
- New tab
- Search  
- Settings
- Tag filtering
- Bookmark note

### Browser Compatibility
Some shortcuts may conflict with browser defaults. The wiki provides alternative shortcuts (using <kbd>Alt</kbd>) to avoid conflicts.

---

## Remember: <kbd>?</kbd> Shows All Shortcuts

The most important shortcut to remember is <kbd>?</kbd> - it will show you the complete, up-to-date shortcuts cheatsheet whenever you need it!

**Customize available shortcuts in Settings → Advanced → Keyboard Shortcuts to match your workflow.**
