notes/tutorials/features/split-view.md, before:

---
title: Split View
tags: [interface, productivity, tabs]
author: Wiki Admin  
created: 2025-01-18
description: Work with multiple notes side-by-side using split view functionality
---

# Split View

Split view allows you to view and edit multiple notes side-by-side, dramatically improving your productivity when working with related content.

## Activating Split View

There are several ways to enable split view:

### 🖱️ Button Click
Click the split view icon (two rectangles) in the header navigation bar.

### ⌨️ Future Shortcut
A keyboard shortcut will be available in future updates.

## How Split View Works

When split view is enabled:

1. **Two Panes**: Your workspace is divided into left and right panes
2. **Active Pane**: One pane is "active" (highlighted with a colored border)
3. **Independent Content**: Each pane can display different notes
4. **Resizable**: Drag the divider to adjust pane sizes

## Using Split View

### 📋 Opening Notes
- **Click any note** to open it in the active pane
- **Drag and drop** notes from sidebar directly into any pane
- **Click a pane** to make it active
- **Visual feedback**: Panes highlight when dragging notes over them

### 📏 Resizing Panes
- **Drag the divider** between panes to adjust widths
- **Minimum width**: 300px per pane
- **Visual feedback**: Divider changes color on hover

### 🎯 Active Pane
- The active pane has a **colored border**
- New notes open in the **active pane**
- Click any pane to make it active

### 🖱️ Drag & Drop
- **Drag notes** from the sidebar file tree into any pane
- **Visual feedback**: Notes show grab cursor when draggable
- **Drop zones**: Panes highlight with colored border during drag
- **Auto-activate**: Dropping a note automatically makes that pane active

## Use Cases

### 📚 Research & Writing
- Open reference material in one pane
- Write notes in the other pane

### 🔗 Cross-Referencing
- Compare different versions of documents
- View related notes simultaneously

### 📖 Learning
- Tutorial in one pane
- Practice notes in the other

### 🛠️ Development
- Documentation in one pane
- Code examples in the other

## Mobile Experience

On mobile devices:
- Split view automatically becomes **single pane**
- Only the active pane is shown
- Tap to switch between panes

## Tips & Tricks

### ⚡ Efficiency Tips
1. **Bookmark frequently compared notes** for quick access
2. **Use wiki links** to jump between related content
3. **Resize panes** based on content importance
4. **Focus mode** works in split view too

### 🎨 Visual Organization
- Different **themes** help distinguish panes
- Use the **table of contents** in longer documents
- **Search within notes** works in both panes

## Disabling Split View

To return to single-pane view:
1. Click the split view button again
2. The interface returns to normal layout
3. Your current note remains active

## Technical Notes

### 🧠 Memory Management
- Split view uses minimal additional memory
- Each pane maintains its own scroll position
- Tab system works independently in each pane

### 💾 Settings Persistence
- Split view state is saved automatically
- Pane sizes are remembered between sessions
- Preferences sync across tabs

Split view transforms your note-taking workflow, making it easy to work with multiple documents efficiently!

Commit message:

refactor: update keyboard shortcuts and split view functionality
- Revised keyboard shortcuts in `keyboard-shortcuts.md` to prioritize browser-compatible options, enhancing usability across different platforms.
- Introduced a new keyboard shortcut for toggling split view in `split-view.md`, improving accessibility for users.
- Updated tab management instructions in `tab-management.md` to reflect changes in shortcut assignments, ensuring consistency and clarity.
- Enhanced the welcome guide in `welcome.md` to include the latest shortcut updates, providing users with accurate information for a better onboarding experience.

These changes improve the overall user experience by streamlining navigation and enhancing the functionality of the Notes Wiki.

notes/tutorials/features/split-view.md, after:

---
title: Split View
tags: [interface, productivity, tabs]
author: Wiki Admin  
created: 2025-01-18
description: Work with multiple notes side-by-side using split view functionality
---

# Split View

Split view allows you to view and edit multiple notes side-by-side, dramatically improving your productivity when working with related content.

## Activating Split View

There are several ways to enable split view:

### 🖱️ Button Click
Click the split view icon (two rectangles) in the header navigation bar.

### ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcut
Press `Ctrl+/` (Mac: `⌘+/`) to toggle split view on and off.

## How Split View Works

When split view is enabled:

1. **Two Panes**: Your workspace is divided into left and right panes
2. **Active Pane**: One pane is "active" (highlighted with a colored border)
3. **Independent Content**: Each pane can display different notes
4. **Resizable**: Drag the divider to adjust pane sizes

## Using Split View

### 📋 Opening Notes
- **Click any note** to open it in the active pane
- **Drag and drop** notes from sidebar directly into any pane
- **Click a pane** to make it active
- **Visual feedback**: Panes highlight when dragging notes over them

### 📏 Resizing Panes
- **Drag the divider** between panes to adjust widths
- **Minimum width**: 300px per pane
- **Visual feedback**: Divider changes color on hover

### 🎯 Active Pane
- The active pane has a **colored border**
- New notes open in the **active pane**
- Click any pane to make it active

### 🖱️ Drag & Drop
- **Drag notes** from the sidebar file tree into any pane
- **Visual feedback**: Notes show grab cursor when draggable
- **Drop zones**: Panes highlight with colored border during drag
- **Auto-activate**: Dropping a note automatically makes that pane active

## Use Cases

### 📚 Research & Writing
- Open reference material in one pane
- Write notes in the other pane

### 🔗 Cross-Referencing
- Compare different versions of documents
- View related notes simultaneously

### 📖 Learning
- Tutorial in one pane
- Practice notes in the other

### 🛠️ Development
- Documentation in one pane
- Code examples in the other

## Mobile Experience

On mobile devices:
- Split view automatically becomes **single pane**
- Only the active pane is shown
- Tap to switch between panes

## Tips & Tricks

### ⚡ Efficiency Tips
1. **Bookmark frequently compared notes** for quick access
2. **Use wiki links** to jump between related content
3. **Resize panes** based on content importance
4. **Focus mode** works in split view too

### 🎨 Visual Organization
- Different **themes** help distinguish panes
- Use the **table of contents** in longer documents
- **Search within notes** works in both panes

## Disabling Split View

To return to single-pane view:
1. Click the split view button again
2. The interface returns to normal layout
3. Your current note remains active

## Technical Notes

### 🧠 Memory Management
- Split view uses minimal additional memory
- Each pane maintains its own scroll position
- Tab system works independently in each pane

### 💾 Settings Persistence
- Split view state is saved automatically
- Pane sizes are remembered between sessions
- Preferences sync across tabs

Split view transforms your note-taking workflow, making it easy to work with multiple documents efficiently!
