notes/tutorials/features/tab-management.md, before:

---
title: Tab Management Guide  
tags: [demo, tabs, productivity, navigation]
created: 2025-06-13
author: Wiki Admin
description: Complete guide to tab management features including drag-and-drop, keyboard shortcuts, and multi-tab workflows
---

# Tab Management Guide

The Notes Wiki includes a powerful tab system that enables efficient multi-document workflows. Open multiple notes simultaneously, reorder tabs with drag-and-drop, and navigate quickly with keyboard shortcuts.

## 📑 Tab Basics

### Opening Tabs

**New Empty Tab:**
- Click the **+** button in the tab bar
- Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>
- Right-click tab bar → "New Tab"

**Open Note in New Tab:**
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> any note link
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> search results
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> sidebar items
- Right-click note → "Open in New Tab"

**Duplicate Current Tab:**
- Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd>
- Right-click tab → "Duplicate"

### Tab Navigation

**Keyboard Shortcuts:**
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> - Jump to tab by number
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> - Next tab
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Tab</kbd> - Previous tab

**Mouse Navigation:**
- **Click tab** - Switch to tab
- **Middle-click tab** - Close tab
- **Scroll on tab bar** - Scroll through many tabs

### Closing Tabs

**Single Tab:**
- Click the **×** button on tab
- Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd>
- Middle-click the tab

**Multiple Tabs:**
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> - Close all tabs
- Right-click tab → "Close Other Tabs"
- Right-click tab → "Close Tabs to Right"

### Pinning Tabs

**Pin Important Tabs:**
- Press <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd> to pin/unpin current tab
- Right-click tab → "Pin Tab"
- Click the pin icon on the tab (when available)

**Pinned Tab Features:**
- **Protection from closure** - Pinned tabs cannot be accidentally closed
- **Visual indicator** - Pin icon shows tab is pinned
- **Persistent position** - Pinned tabs stay at the beginning of the tab bar
- **Session persistence** - Pinned tabs are restored when reopening the wiki
- **No accidental closure** - Close button disabled on pinned tabs

## 🎯 Drag-and-Drop Features

### Reordering Tabs
Drag tabs to reorder them for better organization:

1. **Click and hold** on a tab
2. **Drag** to desired position
3. **Drop** to reorder

**Visual Feedback:**
- Tab being dragged becomes semi-transparent
- Drop zone indicators show valid positions
- Smooth animations provide feedback

### Advanced Drag Operations

**Drag to Specific Positions:**
- **Beginning** - Drag to leftmost position
- **Between tabs** - Drop between any two tabs
- **End** - Drag to rightmost position

**Multi-Tab Dragging (Future Feature):**
- Select multiple tabs with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd>
- Drag entire selection to new position

## 🚀 Tab Workflows

### Research Workflow
Perfect for gathering information from multiple sources:

```
1. Start with main topic note
2. Ctrl+Click related links → Open in background tabs
3. Ctrl+1-9 to jump between tabs
4. Drag tabs to group related content
5. Pin reference tabs with Alt+P to keep them accessible
```

**Example Research Session:**
```
Tab 1: "JavaScript Basics" (main topic)
Tab 2: "Array Methods Reference" (reference)
Tab 3: "Async/Await Tutorial" (related)
Tab 4: "Code Examples" (examples)
Tab 5: "Best Practices" (guidelines)
```

### Writing Workflow
Ideal for content creation with references:

```
1. Open draft in main tab
2. Open reference materials in background tabs
3. Use Ctrl+Tab to cycle between draft and references
4. Pin style guide tab with Alt+P for persistent access
5. Use duplicate tabs for before/after comparisons
```

### Study Workflow
Organize learning materials efficiently:

```
1. Course overview in first tab
2. Current lesson in second tab  
3. Practice exercises in third tab
4. Reference materials in remaining tabs
5. Reorder tabs by learning sequence
```

## 🎨 Tab Appearance & Indicators

### Tab States

**Active Tab:**
- Highlighted background
- Full opacity
- Bold title text

**Inactive Tabs:**
- Dimmed background
- Reduced opacity
- Normal title text

**Loading Tab:**
- Loading spinner icon
- "Loading..." text
- Disabled interaction

### Visual Indicators

**Icons:**
- 📄 - Regular note
- 🏠 - Home/Index page
- 🔍 - Search results
- ⚙️ - Settings page
- 📋 - Empty/New tab

**Status Indicators:**
- **Modified** - Dot indicator for unsaved changes
- **Pinned** - 📌 Pin icon for persistent tabs (protected from closure)
- **Shared** - Share icon for shared content

### Tab Titles
Tab titles are intelligently shortened:

- **Full title** - "JavaScript Advanced Concepts Tutorial"
- **Shortened** - "JavaScript Advanced..."
- **Minimal** - "JavaScript..."
- **Icon only** - When space is very limited

## 🔧 Tab Management Features

### Tab Persistence
Tabs are preserved across sessions:

- **Automatic saving** - Open tabs saved to localStorage
- **Restore on startup** - Previous session tabs restored
- **Crash recovery** - Tabs recovered after browser crashes

### Tab Limits
Manage performance with tab limits:

- **Default limit** - 10 tabs (configurable)
- **Warning threshold** - 8 tabs
- **Auto-close** - Oldest unused tabs closed when limit reached
- **Exempt tabs** - Pinned tabs are never auto-closed and don't count toward the limit

### Tab Groups (Future Feature)
Organize tabs into logical groups:

- **Color coding** - Assign colors to tab groups
- **Group names** - Label groups for easy identification
- **Collapse groups** - Hide/show entire groups
- **Group operations** - Close/duplicate entire groups

## ⚙️ Tab Settings

### Customization Options
Configure tab behavior in **Settings** → **Tabs**:

**Appearance:**
- **Tab width** - Minimum and maximum tab width
- **Show icons** - Display icons in tabs
- **Show close buttons** - Always/on hover/never
- **Animation speed** - Tab transition animations

**Behavior:**
- **Tab limit** - Maximum number of open tabs
- **Auto-close** - Close unused tabs automatically
- **Middle-click action** - Close tab/new tab/custom
- **Scroll behavior** - Mouse wheel scrolling in tab bar

**Keyboard:**
- **Cycle order** - Recently used vs. visual order
- **New tab position** - End/after current/custom
- **Close tab focus** - Previous/next/recent

## 💡 Tab Best Practices

### Efficient Tab Organization

**Group Related Content:**
```
Research tabs: Tab 1-3 (drag together)
Reference tabs: Tab 4-6 (keep at end)
Draft tabs: Tab 7-8 (keep accessible)
```

**Use Descriptive Workflows:**
```
Workflow 1: Learning new technology
- Overview → Tutorial → Examples → Reference

Workflow 2: Project planning  
- Requirements → Design → Research → Notes

Workflow 3: Content creation
- Outline → Draft → References → Style guide
```

### Performance Tips

**Manage Tab Count:**
- Close unused tabs regularly
- Use bookmarks for long-term references
- Pin frequently accessed tabs with Alt+P
- Set reasonable tab limits
- Pinned tabs are protected from accidental closure

**Optimize for Your Screen:**
- Larger screens - More tabs visible
- Smaller screens - Fewer tabs, more scrolling
- Mobile - Limited tab functionality

### Keyboard Efficiency

**Master Tab Shortcuts:**
```
Ctrl+T - New tab (most important)
Ctrl+W - Close tab (second most important)
Alt+P - Pin/unpin tab (protect important tabs)
Ctrl+1-9 - Jump to specific tabs
Ctrl+Tab - Cycle through tabs
```

**Power User Tips:**
```
Ctrl+Shift+T - Reopen closed tab (future)
Ctrl+Shift+N - New private tab (future)
Ctrl+Shift+Tab - Reverse tab cycling
```

## 🎯 Advanced Tab Techniques

### Tab Templates
Create templates for common workflows:

**Research Template:**
1. Main topic tab
2. Reference tab  
3. Notes tab
4. Examples tab

**Writing Template:**
1. Outline tab
2. Draft tab
3. Style guide tab
4. References tab

### Tab Automation (Future)
Automate tab management with rules:

- **Auto-pin** - Pin tabs matching patterns
- **Auto-close** - Close tabs after inactivity
- **Auto-group** - Group tabs by domain/topic
- **Auto-restore** - Restore specific tab sets

### Cross-Session Workflows
Maintain workflows across browser sessions:

1. **Save tab sessions** - Export current tab set
2. **Name sessions** - "Research Project Alpha"
3. **Restore sessions** - Load saved tab sets
4. **Share sessions** - Export for team collaboration

---

## Tab Management Mastery

Effective tab management transforms your note-taking workflow. Start with basic shortcuts, develop organization patterns, and gradually adopt advanced techniques that match your work style.

**Remember:** The goal is productivity, not having the most tabs open. Find the balance that works for your workflow and screen size!

**Quick Start:** Try opening 3-4 related notes in tabs right now and practice using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>4</kbd> to jump between them.

Commit message:

refactor: update keyboard shortcuts and split view functionality
- Revised keyboard shortcuts in `keyboard-shortcuts.md` to prioritize browser-compatible options, enhancing usability across different platforms.
- Introduced a new keyboard shortcut for toggling split view in `split-view.md`, improving accessibility for users.
- Updated tab management instructions in `tab-management.md` to reflect changes in shortcut assignments, ensuring consistency and clarity.
- Enhanced the welcome guide in `welcome.md` to include the latest shortcut updates, providing users with accurate information for a better onboarding experience.

These changes improve the overall user experience by streamlining navigation and enhancing the functionality of the Notes Wiki.

notes/tutorials/features/tab-management.md, after:

---
title: Tab Management Guide  
tags: [demo, tabs, productivity, navigation]
created: 2025-06-13
author: Wiki Admin
description: Complete guide to tab management features including drag-and-drop, keyboard shortcuts, and multi-tab workflows
---

# Tab Management Guide

The Notes Wiki includes a powerful tab system that enables efficient multi-document workflows. Open multiple notes simultaneously, reorder tabs with drag-and-drop, and navigate quickly with keyboard shortcuts.

## 📑 Tab Basics

### Opening Tabs

**New Empty Tab:**
- Click the **+** button in the tab bar
- Press <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd> (browser-safe) or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd>
- Right-click tab bar → "New Tab"

**Open Note in New Tab:**
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> any note link
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> search results
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> sidebar items
- Right-click note → "Open in New Tab"

**Duplicate Current Tab:**
- Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>D</kbd>
- Right-click tab → "Duplicate"

### Tab Navigation

**Keyboard Shortcuts:**
- <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> - Jump to tab by number (browser-safe)
- <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>PageUp</kbd>/<kbd>PageDown</kbd> - Navigate between tabs
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>9</kbd> - Jump to tab by number (may conflict with browser)

**Mouse Navigation:**
- **Click tab** - Switch to tab
- **Middle-click tab** - Close tab
- **Scroll on tab bar** - Scroll through many tabs

### Closing Tabs

**Single Tab:**
- Click the **×** button on tab
- Press <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> (browser-safe) or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd>
- Middle-click the tab

**Multiple Tabs:**
- <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>W</kbd> - Close all tabs
- Right-click tab → "Close Other Tabs"
- Right-click tab → "Close Tabs to Right"

### Pinning Tabs

**Pin Important Tabs:**
- Press <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd> to pin/unpin current tab
- Right-click tab → "Pin Tab"
- Click the pin icon on the tab (when available)

**Pinned Tab Features:**
- **Protection from closure** - Pinned tabs cannot be accidentally closed
- **Visual indicator** - Pin icon shows tab is pinned
- **Persistent position** - Pinned tabs stay at the beginning of the tab bar
- **Session persistence** - Pinned tabs are restored when reopening the wiki
- **No accidental closure** - Close button disabled on pinned tabs

## 🎯 Drag-and-Drop Features

### Reordering Tabs
Drag tabs to reorder them for better organization:

1. **Click and hold** on a tab
2. **Drag** to desired position
3. **Drop** to reorder

**Visual Feedback:**
- Tab being dragged becomes semi-transparent
- Drop zone indicators show valid positions
- Smooth animations provide feedback

### Advanced Drag Operations

**Drag to Specific Positions:**
- **Beginning** - Drag to leftmost position
- **Between tabs** - Drop between any two tabs
- **End** - Drag to rightmost position

**Multi-Tab Dragging (Future Feature):**
- Select multiple tabs with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd>
- Drag entire selection to new position

## 🚀 Tab Workflows

### Research Workflow
Perfect for gathering information from multiple sources:

```
1. Start with main topic note
2. Ctrl+Click related links → Open in background tabs
3. Ctrl+1-9 to jump between tabs
4. Drag tabs to group related content
5. Pin reference tabs with Alt+P to keep them accessible
```

**Example Research Session:**
```
Tab 1: "JavaScript Basics" (main topic)
Tab 2: "Array Methods Reference" (reference)
Tab 3: "Async/Await Tutorial" (related)
Tab 4: "Code Examples" (examples)
Tab 5: "Best Practices" (guidelines)
```

### Writing Workflow
Ideal for content creation with references:

```
1. Open draft in main tab
2. Open reference materials in background tabs
3. Use Ctrl+Tab to cycle between draft and references
4. Pin style guide tab with Alt+P for persistent access
5. Use duplicate tabs for before/after comparisons
```

### Study Workflow
Organize learning materials efficiently:

```
1. Course overview in first tab
2. Current lesson in second tab  
3. Practice exercises in third tab
4. Reference materials in remaining tabs
5. Reorder tabs by learning sequence
```

## 🎨 Tab Appearance & Indicators

### Tab States

**Active Tab:**
- Highlighted background
- Full opacity
- Bold title text

**Inactive Tabs:**
- Dimmed background
- Reduced opacity
- Normal title text

**Loading Tab:**
- Loading spinner icon
- "Loading..." text
- Disabled interaction

### Visual Indicators

**Icons:**
- 📄 - Regular note
- 🏠 - Home/Index page
- 🔍 - Search results
- ⚙️ - Settings page
- 📋 - Empty/New tab

**Status Indicators:**
- **Modified** - Dot indicator for unsaved changes
- **Pinned** - 📌 Pin icon for persistent tabs (protected from closure)
- **Shared** - Share icon for shared content

### Tab Titles
Tab titles are intelligently shortened:

- **Full title** - "JavaScript Advanced Concepts Tutorial"
- **Shortened** - "JavaScript Advanced..."
- **Minimal** - "JavaScript..."
- **Icon only** - When space is very limited

## 🔧 Tab Management Features

### Tab Persistence
Tabs are preserved across sessions:

- **Automatic saving** - Open tabs saved to localStorage
- **Restore on startup** - Previous session tabs restored
- **Crash recovery** - Tabs recovered after browser crashes

### Tab Limits
Manage performance with tab limits:

- **Default limit** - 10 tabs (configurable)
- **Warning threshold** - 8 tabs
- **Auto-close** - Oldest unused tabs closed when limit reached
- **Exempt tabs** - Pinned tabs are never auto-closed and don't count toward the limit

### Tab Groups (Future Feature)
Organize tabs into logical groups:

- **Color coding** - Assign colors to tab groups
- **Group names** - Label groups for easy identification
- **Collapse groups** - Hide/show entire groups
- **Group operations** - Close/duplicate entire groups

## ⚙️ Tab Settings

### Customization Options
Configure tab behavior in **Settings** → **Tabs**:

**Appearance:**
- **Tab width** - Minimum and maximum tab width
- **Show icons** - Display icons in tabs
- **Show close buttons** - Always/on hover/never
- **Animation speed** - Tab transition animations

**Behavior:**
- **Tab limit** - Maximum number of open tabs
- **Auto-close** - Close unused tabs automatically
- **Middle-click action** - Close tab/new tab/custom
- **Scroll behavior** - Mouse wheel scrolling in tab bar

**Keyboard:**
- **Cycle order** - Recently used vs. visual order
- **New tab position** - End/after current/custom
- **Close tab focus** - Previous/next/recent

## 💡 Tab Best Practices

### Efficient Tab Organization

**Group Related Content:**
```
Research tabs: Tab 1-3 (drag together)
Reference tabs: Tab 4-6 (keep at end)
Draft tabs: Tab 7-8 (keep accessible)
```

**Use Descriptive Workflows:**
```
Workflow 1: Learning new technology
- Overview → Tutorial → Examples → Reference

Workflow 2: Project planning  
- Requirements → Design → Research → Notes

Workflow 3: Content creation
- Outline → Draft → References → Style guide
```

### Performance Tips

**Manage Tab Count:**
- Close unused tabs regularly
- Use bookmarks for long-term references
- Pin frequently accessed tabs with Alt+P
- Set reasonable tab limits
- Pinned tabs are protected from accidental closure

**Optimize for Your Screen:**
- Larger screens - More tabs visible
- Smaller screens - Fewer tabs, more scrolling
- Mobile - Limited tab functionality

### Keyboard Efficiency

**Master Tab Shortcuts:**
```
Ctrl+T - New tab (most important)
Ctrl+W - Close tab (second most important)
Alt+P - Pin/unpin tab (protect important tabs)
Ctrl+1-9 - Jump to specific tabs
Ctrl+Tab - Cycle through tabs
```

**Power User Tips:**
```
Ctrl+Shift+T - Reopen closed tab (future)
Ctrl+Shift+N - New private tab (future)
Ctrl+Shift+Tab - Reverse tab cycling
```

## 🎯 Advanced Tab Techniques

### Tab Templates
Create templates for common workflows:

**Research Template:**
1. Main topic tab
2. Reference tab  
3. Notes tab
4. Examples tab

**Writing Template:**
1. Outline tab
2. Draft tab
3. Style guide tab
4. References tab

### Tab Automation (Future)
Automate tab management with rules:

- **Auto-pin** - Pin tabs matching patterns
- **Auto-close** - Close tabs after inactivity
- **Auto-group** - Group tabs by domain/topic
- **Auto-restore** - Restore specific tab sets

### Cross-Session Workflows
Maintain workflows across browser sessions:

1. **Save tab sessions** - Export current tab set
2. **Name sessions** - "Research Project Alpha"
3. **Restore sessions** - Load saved tab sets
4. **Share sessions** - Export for team collaboration

---

## Tab Management Mastery

Effective tab management transforms your note-taking workflow. Start with basic shortcuts, develop organization patterns, and gradually adopt advanced techniques that match your work style.

**Remember:** The goal is productivity, not having the most tabs open. Find the balance that works for your workflow and screen size!

**Quick Start:** Try opening 3-4 related notes in tabs right now and practice using <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd>-<kbd>4</kbd> to jump between them.
